# Emerging Technology

[Home](/index.md)

![Image](/emerging_technology.jpg)

Nanobots are a particular technology on the rise lately.  These are most often heard of when
used in medicine.  Nanobots are tiny robots that are typically between 50-100 nanometers wide
and are often used to carry a drug targeting a particular disease within the body.  They
contain small doses of the drug contained in extremely thin cell walls usually 5-10 atoms
thick.  When the nanobot senses the disease in question, it uses a tiny electrical pulse to 
break down the wall and release the drug.  These little devices have tremendous potential in 
the medical fields and other fields as well.  They relate directly to computer science as they
are robots that require software to work.   As these devices become more advanced the potential
for their use grows exponentially.  It is a matter of designing components that work on such a
small scale regarding things like computational power and a power source.  It may be that in
the future, nanobots will be able to do things to repair parts of the body from within.

Embedded systems technology is widespread across the world now and ranges from simple devices 
to complex systems of elaborate design to perform massive tasks.  The concept of embedded 
devices ties in with the robotics world since much of what a robot is, is a compilation of 
embedded systems.  A series of sensors, power sources, mechanical devices, computational 
devices, all working together to perform separate tasks for a greater purpose.  Embedded 
devices have seen massive growth over the years and only continue to expand and grow as time 
goes on.  This field is a firm part of the future of electronics and smart(er) devices.  
Examples of embedded systems can be found in virtually every other field of science and all 
over the world.  These devices require detailed programming and software to run and are 
designed to perform specific tasks working within specific parameters.  All of these things 
are part of the computer science field.
